Definition
==========

I own music in different formats. Most of it is mp3, but I slowly replace them
with `ogg` and `flac` version whenever I can.

Devices
=======

This music library will be copied on various devices from home computer to
laptop to cellphone and portable media player. All this different devices have
different playing capabilities and storage capacity.

File formats
============

I own music in various file formats. Most of it is `mp3`, but I'd rather use
`ogg` when I can and `flac` for long term.

I absolutly do not want anything in `wma` format, but I do have a few files in
`wav` format (which are mostly sounds extracted from video games) or `spc`
(SNIN soundcard dump).

File tree
=========

I used to sort my music by genre, but I now have a collection too big for it to
fit in definite slots and a lot of albums overlap. I now use a file tree like
the following

	A/
		Asura/
			[2000] - Code Eternity/
				01 - Like a Summer Day.mp3
				...
	
i.e, a top directory for each letter of the alphabet, in which I have
a directory for each artist, in which I have directories for each albums, with
the release year in square brackets prepended.

Each song is then named `{track number} - {track name}.mp3`, with `track
number` prepended with `0` if need be. As said earlier, `ogg` is also preferred
over `mp3` if available.


FLAC
====

If I do have the original music in `flac` format, it is in a `flac/`
subdirectory of the album directory.

Cover
=====

Some devices are able to read the cover image of albums and display it when the
song is played. I put this file in the album directory, in `jpg` format.
The file is named `{Artist} - {Album}.jpg`.

ID3
===

All `mp3` files will have correct id3 tagging. They must have at least the
Artist, Album, Title and Track number fields. The Comment field or any other
fields containing information about the ripping software used, website where it
was downloaded or other useless information must be removed.

The cover must not be included in the id3 tags either.

I don't really know what to do about the genre field as this is highly
subjective and a large music collection tend to have hundred of different
genre, rendering the "search by genre" feature useless.

Albums and Singles
==================

I do not like having just a few songs of an artist and like listening to
a whole album to get a general idea. 

I do have a special folder of easy-listening, catchy or funny songs, but this
is not the main path I follow.

Soundtracks
===========

An important part of my collection are movie and game soundtrack. The
previously described file tree will not be a good fit for soundtracks. Instead,
I'll use this one :

	A
		American Beauty
			01 - Dead Already.mp3
			...
		...
	...

i.e. a directory for each letter of the alphabet containing a directory for
each movie/game with the audio files in it. It means we simply skip the artist
folder as this is not really usefull in soundtracks.

Backup
======

I will have a *master* repository, holding both the current state of the
library and the history of previous versions. This will be saved on an external
hard drive of ~500Go.

I will then have, on every other device (home computer, laptop, cellphone,
media player) a (partial) clone of this *master*, without the history.

I'll also have a second external hard drive, of the same capacity as the
*master* that I'll use as a secondary backup, named *backup*. Every month I'll
do a full copy of the repo located on *master* to *backup*.

*master* will be physically located at my place, at home, and I'll use it often
to add or remove albums on it. *backup* will be physically located outside of
my home, maybe at work, or at a friend or family member. I'll go get it once
every month, copy *master* content on it, and then move *backup* back to where
it belongs.

When I'll download/rip new music, I'll first make sure to clean it and fit my
file tree/id3/naming requirements, then add it to *master*.

Then, any device will be able to pull music from the *master*. I might have to
write custom `rsync` scripts to do this pull because each device will need
a different set of files based on storage capacity and playing abilities.
