Overview
========

Here is a guide to a coherent file naming covention accross my movie
collection.

Each movie file should be named as the official name of the movie (including
capitalization), in the original language. For example `Back to the Future.avi`
or `Je vais bien ne t'en fais pas.avi`.


Children movies
===============

For some movies, especially children one, I might have them in a different
language that the original one. For this movies, I will put the name of the
movie in the final language, not the original one.

To avoid confusion when both names are the same, I also add the language code
between brackets.

For example `Le Roi Lion [FR].avi` for the french dubbed version of `The Lion
King`.

Different alphabet
==================

If I am unable to read the name of the movie in the original language (for
example in Chinese, Japanese, Russian or Greek), I'll put the English
equivalent instead.

For example `20th Century Boys.avi` instead of `20世紀少年 Nijusseiki
Shōnen.avi`.

Articles
========

Definite and indefinite articles ("the", "a", "an", etc) starting a movie names
will be moved at the end of the name, wrapped in parenthesis.

For example `Hangover (The).avi` instead of `The Hangover.avi`.

The same will apply in other languages ("le", "la", "les" in french or "el",
"la" in spanish).

Subtitles
=========

Subtitles files must reside in the same folder as the movie and be named
exactly the same, but suffixed with the language code between brackets.

For example, the subtitle for `Mary and Max.avi` will be named `Mary and Max
[FR].srt`

Unfortunatly, some movies will have embedded subtitles directly in the movie
file. In that case, this should be added to the file name too, in the form
`[ST{language}]`.

For example, `Down by Law [STFR].avi` if french subtitles are embedded in "Down
by Law".

