File format
===========

When speaking of movie files, we should not talk of file format but video
encoding, audio encoding and container format. In an ideal world I would have
all my movie library in `mkv` files with `ogg` audio and `h264` video. But this
is not the case and very few of my files match this description.

Instead I mostly have `avi` containers with a bunch of various audio and video
encoder. This will do for now.

On the other hand, I do not want any `wmv` or `mov` file at all.

Devices
=======

I intend my movie library to fit on a portable hard-drive that I can easily
plug on compatible TV or computer to play my movies.

I might also copy some files to other devices (cellphone, tablet, etc) to watch
a movie on an irregular basis.

Subtitles
=========

TO BE COMPLETED WITH DATA FROM FILE TREE

File tree
=========

I used to order my movies by genre, but it soon became cluttered in a lot of
genre and sub-genre that only me could understand, and more often than not, not
even me.

I now use an alphabetical ordering, with a main directory for each letter of
the alphabet. In it, I put a directory for each movie, putting common
prepositions like (The, Le, La, etc) at the end of the name, as to not clutter
the `T/` and `L/` directories.

I also wrap films of a same franchise (like Batman, Ice Age, Harry Potter,
etc) in a common directory with subdirectories for each movie, but prepended
with the index of the movie in the franchise.

I also name each movie file by the official name of the movie, as found on
Wikipedia. I put a subtitle with the exact same name (an `srt` file) in the
same directory.

I try to avoid dubbed movies, and rather like to have the movie in the original
language and the matching subtitle file. But I still have some american movies
with french voices (mostly cartoons). In that case, I add the audio stream
language in the file name, between square brackets, like `[FR]`.

When a movie file contains multiple audio streams, I separate them with and
hyphen, like `[JP-FR]`.

I try to avoid as much as I can movies with embedded burned subtitles, and
rather take movies without subtitles, or in an `mkv` container allowing for
easy swapping/disabling. When a movie contains a subtitle, I add it to the
filename by prepending a bracketed, hyphen-separated list of languages,
prepended by `ST`, like so : `[STFR]`, or `[STFR-ES]`.


Example :

	B/
		Be Kind, Rewind/
			Be Kind, Rewind.avi
			Be Kind, Rewind.srt
		Blues Brothers (The)/
			Blues Brothers (The).avi
			Blues Brothers (The).srt
		Bourne/
			01 - Bourne Identity (The)/
				Bourne Identity (The).avi
				Bourne Identity (The).srt
			02 - Bourne Supremacy (The)
				 Bourne Supremacy (The).mp4
				 Bourne Supremacy (The).srt
			03 - Bourne Ultimatum (The)
				 Bourne Ultimatum (The).avi
				 Bourne Ultimatum (The).srt

	[...]

	D/
		Death Note/
			Death Note [STFR].avi

	[...]

	I/
		Indestructibles (Les)
			Indestructibles (Les) [FR].avi

Backup
======

I will have one *master* portable hard drive containing my whole library and
its history, in the form of a `boar` repo. I will also have an other portable
hard-drive of the exact same capacity, named *backup* that I'll keep at my work
or at a friend place and only fetch once a monthe to sync with *master*.

I think a 1To hard-drive will be enough to hold my library.


